.TH FREEHTTPD 8 "9 July 2025" "freehttpd 1.0.0"

.SH NAME
freehttpd \- lightweight and fast HTTP server daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B freehttpd
[\-T]
[\-V]
[\-v]
[\-F]
[\-f \fIconfig_file\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B freehttpd
is a fast and lightweight web server designed with modern CGI scripting and static content serving tasks in mind.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-config \fIconfig_file\fR
Specify a configuration file path to load.  Defaults to /etc/freehttpd/fhttpd.conf, unless configured otherwise during the build process.

.TP
.B \-T, \-\-test
Test the configuration file syntax and validity.  It will report errors if found.

.TP
.B \-F, \-\-foreground
Runs the server in foreground.  Logs will be printed to stdout and stderr alongside the log files.  This is the default mode when using
.BR systemd (1)
as the service manager.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version information and exit.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose mode.  This is helpful for debugging, as it will log every internal event that's considered important for debugging.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/freehttpd/fhttpd.conf
Default configuration file.

.TP
/var/log/freehttpd/fhttpd.log
Default log file.

.TP
/var/run/freehttpd.pid
Process ID file.

.SH EXAMPLES
Start the server with all the defaults:

.NF
  $ \fBfreehttpd\fR
.FI

Start the server with a custom configuration file path:

.NF
  $ \fBfreehttpd\fR \-f /etc/custom_path/fhttpd_custom.conf
.FI

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemd (1)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <rakinar2@onesoftnet.eu.org>.  GitHub: <https://github.com/onesoft-sudo/freehttpd>.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Ar Rakin.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 OSN Developers.  Licensed under the AGPLv3+: GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
